---
layout: page
title: NET-26NOV-2020-C-1-3
# description: another without an image
# img:
# importance: 3
---
<!-- # **NET DEC 2016 (B): 1 of 2**  -->

Let $G$ be a finite group. Which of the following are true?

(a) If $g \in G$ has order $m$ and if $n \ge 1$ divides $m$, then $G$ has a subgroup of order $n$.<br>
(b) If for any two subgroups $A$ and $B$ of $G$, either $A \subset B$ or $B \subset A$, then $G$ is cyclic.<br>
(c) If $G$ is cyclic, then for any two subgroups $A$ and $B$ of $G$, either $A\subset B$ or $B \subset A$.<br>
(d) If for every positive integer $m$ dividing $|G|$, $G$ has a subgroup of order $m$, then $G$ is cyclic.<br>

**Solution**

(a) The subgroup $\langle g\rangle$ is cyclic and hence abelian. By converse of Lagrange's theorem, which holds for finite abelian groups, since $n \mid m$, $\langle g \rangle$ has a subgroup of order $n$. Hence $G$ has a subgroup of order $n$.<br>

(b) If $G$ is cyclic we are done. If not, let $a \in G$ and consider $A = \langle a\rangle$. Then $A$ is a proper subgroup of $G$. So let $b \in G$ such that $b \not \in A$. Consider $B = \langle b \rangle$. Then by hypothesis, either $B\subset A$ or $A \subset B$. Since $b \not\in A$, $B \not\subset A$. Therefore, $A \subset B$. if $G = B$, then $G$ is cyclic. So if $B$ is a proper subgroup of $G$, then take $c \in G$ such that $c \not\in B$. Let $C = \langle c \rangle$ and repeat the process. As $G$ is finite, we conclude that $G$ is cyclic.<br>

(c) $\mathbb Z_6$ is cyclic. Let $A = \langle 2 \rangle = \{0, 2, 4\}$ and $B = \langle 3 \rangle = \{0,3\}$. Neither $A \subset B$ nor $B \subset A$.<br>

(d) Let $G = Q_8=\{\pm 1, \pm i, \pm j, \pm k\}$ be the quaternion group. For every positive integer dividing $|G| = 8$, $G$ has a subgroup of that order. But $G$ is not cyclic.